Okay, if you've been exploring term
insurance plans lately, you've probably
noticed something interesting. Almost
every insurer claims to offer
flexibility, multiple options, and
add-ons that customize your plan. But
when you actually dig deeper, the real
question becomes how much of that
flexibility actually translates into
meaningful coverage. Today, we're
breaking down one such insurer and its
term insurance portfolio. Hello folks,
I'm Shashank. You're watching DTO
insurance. At Dito, we help people
choose the right term and health
insurance plan with the help of Idea
certified advisers in house. There's no
spam, there's no forceful selling and no
upselling, just honest advice. And if at
any point you want help understanding
which term plan suits you best, you can
always book a free call with Ditto
through the link in the description. All
right, before we begin into the plan,
let's quickly understand the insurer
itself. Canada HSBC Life Insurance is a
joint venture between Canada Bank, HSBC,
and Punjab National Bank. It's been
around since 2007 and operates largely
through a bank assurance model, which
means a lot of sales happen through bank
branches. Let's quickly take a look at
the operational metrics. It should be on
your screen right now. As you can see,
the complaint volume is a little on the
higher side, which is something that you
should keep in mind when evaluating
overall experience. But apart from that,
everything is fine. Now, let's get into
the actual plans. Can HSBC offers three
major term plans, young-term plan, I
select smart 360, and promise to
protect. At a high level, all three
plans follow a similar structure. You
can choose between regular pay and
limited pay options, different coverage
types, and multiple plan variants like
pure protection, return of premium, and
income based options. And let's start
with the cost structure. Across three
plans, the entry age typically ranges
from 18 to 60 or 65 years. And coverage
can go all the way up to age 99, which
is fairly standard in today's term
insurance space. You can choose between
level cover where summershot remains
constant and increasing cover where the
summer short increases by 10% every year
for the first 10 years and then stays
fixed. Now coming to the plan options
because this is where most of the
variation lies. You get a pure life
cover option where your nominee receives
the sums assured in case of death. Then
there's a return of premium option where
if you survive the policy term your
premiums are returned. And in the I
select Smart 360 plan, there is also an
income option where a monthly income
starts after a certain age, typically
60, and continues for a defined period.
Okay, now let's talk about the inbuilt
features because there are quite a few
interesting ones here. One of them is a
lifestage enhancement feature. This
allows you to increase your coverage at
key life events like marriage,
childirth, or buying a house without
going through fresh underwriting. There
is a cap on how much you can increase
though, but it still adds a layer of
flexibility as your responsibilities
grow. Another feature is the special
exit benefit. Now this allows you to
exit the policy at a certain point
typically around age 865 or after 25 to
30 years depending on the term and you
get back most of the premiums that you
paid excluding extras. But this only
applies to longer policy terms and comes
with conditions. Now let's talk about
riders and add-ons. You have a spouse
cover option where both partners are
covered under the same policy and
payouts are structured across both
lives. There's an accidental death
benefit which pays an additional amount
if death occurs due to an accident. You
also have accidental total and permanent
disability benefit which either waves
off future premiums or provides a
lumpsum payout along with premium
waiver. There's also terminal illness
benefit which pays out early if
diagnosed with a terminal condition with
limited life expectancy. [music] And
then there are features like child care
benefit which provides additional
financial support if the insured passes
away while the child is still dependent.
Now, one interesting add-on is the block
your premium benefit, which allows you
to lock your premium and increase your
coverage within the first few years
without fresh underwriting. Now, on
paper, this is a very new concept. This
sounds quite comprehensive, but let's
take a step back and look at what's
missing or needs attention. First, some
features that are commonly inbuilt in
many modern term plans are either
optional here or not available. For
example, things like critical illness
rider or waiver of premium linked to
critical illnesses are not as strong or
maybe missing entirely. Second, now
while features like return of premium
and spouse cover sound attractive, they
typically come at a higher cost and in
many cases the value proposition needs
to be carefully evaluated. Third,
campaign volumes are relatively high
which suggests that while the insurer
performs well on settlement ratios, the
overall experience may not be always
smooth. And finally, compared to some
newer term plans in the market, certain
advanced features like instant claim
payouts or to cover continuence or
integrated health services are missing.
So what does all this mean for you? See,
Caner HSBC's term plans offer a decent
no frrill structure with some
flexibility through add-ons and
lifestage features. Now, they're backed
by strong settlement ratios and
financial stability. At the same time,
if you have someone looking for very
comprehensive features, premium inbuilt
benefits at competitive pricing, then
you're better off comparing it with
other options in the market before
making a final decision. Now, if this
feels confusing or if you're not sure
how to evaluate these trade-offs, you
can always book a free call through the
link in the description. We'll help you
compare plans based on your profile and
explain what actually matters for you.
Because folks, at the end of the day, no
term plan is perfect. The right plan is
the one that protects your family and
gives you the peace of mind at the
budget that you have. All right, folks.
I will see you in the next one. Until
then, happy insurance hunting.